docs/node/: Update system configuration (#745)
oasisprotocol/docs: docs/node/run-your-node/prerequisites/system-configuration.mdx

# System Configuration

This page outlines the modifications necessary that should be made to the
configuration of the system where you are running an Oasis Node instance. To
prepare the system for running an Oasis Node, we will guide you through the
process of creating a dedicated user account and increasing the file descriptor
limit.

> ## Create an user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create a user

```

Nothing in Oasis Node requires elevated privileges, so running the Oasis Node
with root privileges is not allowed. Attempting to run the `oasis-node` process
as the root user will terminate immediately on startup. You will need to
create a dedicated user account to manage the Oasis Node processes. 

> To create the user run as root:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a new user run as root:
```

```shell
adduser oasis
```

If you have an existing data directory, change its ownership to the `oasis`
user. If not, you may skip this step.

```shell
chown -R oasis /node/data
```

:::tip

> Adjust the user as appropriate to your setup. For example, Setting `oasis`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adjust the user as appropriate to your setup. For example, setting the `oasis`
```

user's Shell to `/usr/sbin/nologin` prevents (accidentally) logging in as this
user. See the following examples on how to create a user on different systems.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Ubuntu">

As root, run:

```shell
adduser --system oasis --shell /usr/sbin/nologin
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Fedora">

As root, run:
```shell
useradd -r -s /usr/sbin/nologin
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="Ansible">

Add the following task to your playbook:

```yml
- name: Create oasis user
  user:
    name: oasis
    comment: Oasis Services user
    system: yes
    shell: /usr/sbin/nologin
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::

> ## Increase File Descriptor Limit

Reviewer: For consistency with other 2nd-level titles.

```suggestion
## Increase file descriptor limit
```

Make sure that the user under which you are running your Oasis Node has a

> high-enough file descriptor limit as the databases can have many files open and
> running out of file descriptors can lead to the node stopping unexpectedly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
high-enough file descriptor limit as the databases can have many opened files.
Running out of file descriptors can lead to the node stopping unexpectedly.
```

You can check the file descriptor limit by running the following as the same

> user that will run Oasis Node:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
user that will run the Oasis Node:
```

```shell
ulimit -n
```

If this number is lower than 102400 you should consider increasing it by
updating your system configuration. You can configure _temporary_ limits by
running:

```shell
ulimit -n 102400
```

> Note that this limit only applies to any processes started from the same shell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This limit will only apply to any processes started from the same shell
```

after the command was executed. If you want to make the change _permanent_, you
have the following options:

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="systemd">

In case you are running your Oasis Node process via
[systemd](https://systemd.io/), you can add the following directive under the
`[Service]` section:

```
LimitNOFILE=102400
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Docker">

> If you are running Oasis Node via [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) you can pass

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are running the Oasis Node via [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) you can pass
```

the following option to `docker run` in order to increase the limit to desired
values:

```
--ulimit nofile=102400:1048576
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="limits.conf">

> As `root`, create a System-wide Resource Limits Configuration File in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As `root`, create a system-wide *resource limits* configuration File in
```

`/etc/security/limits.d/99-oasis-node.conf` with content similar to the
following example:

> ```shell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
```

# System Configuration

This page outlines the modifications necessary that should be made to the
configuration of the system where you are running an Oasis Node instance. To
prepare the system for running an Oasis Node, we will guide you through the
process of creating a dedicated user account and increasing the file descriptor
limit.

## Create an user
Nothing in Oasis Node requires elevated privileges, so running the Oasis Node
with root privileges is not allowed. Attempting to run the `oasis-node` process

> as the root user will terminate immediately on startup. We strongly advise
> establishing a dedicated user account to manage the Oasis Node processes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as the root user will terminate immediately on startup. You will need to
create a dedicated user account to manage the Oasis Node processes. 
```

To create the user run as root:

> ```bash

Reviewer: Let's use `shell` language in our docs, if bash syntax is not specifically required.

```suggestion
```shell
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::

## Increase File Descriptor Limit

Make sure that the user under which you are running your Oasis Node has a
high-enough file descriptor limit as the databases can have many files open and
running out of file descriptors can lead to the node stopping unexpectedly.

You can check the file descriptor limit by running the following as the same
user that will run Oasis Node:

```bash
ulimit -n
```

If this number is lower than 102400 you should consider increasing it by
updating your system configuration. You can configure _temporary_ limits by
running:

```bash
ulimit -n 102400
```

Note that this limit only applies to any processes started from the same shell
after the command was executed. If you want to make the change _permanent_, you
have the following options:

<Tabs>

> <TabItem value="System config file">

Reviewer: 1. "System config file" sounds very generic. The config below is actually read by the PAM module during login and resides in the `limits.conf` file or `limits.d` folder. So I would rename the tab to this.

  ```suggestion
  <TabItem value="limits.conf">
  ```

2. Also, I would change the order and have `systemd` (lowercase), `Docker` and the new one so it's consistent with the tabs below.

As `root`, create a System-wide Resource Limits Configuration File in
`/etc/security/limits.d/99-oasis-node.conf` with content similar to the
following example:

```bash
*        soft    nofile    102400
*        hard    nofile    1048576
```

You can replace `*` with the name of the user that is running the Oasis Node in
case you only want to change the limits for that particular user.

> :::caution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::caution

The change above will increase the limit for all processes and not just the Oasis Node.

:::

:::info
```

In order for the changes to take effect a system restart may be required.

:::

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Systemd">

In case you are running your Oasis Node process via
[systemd](https://systemd.io/), you can add the following directive under the
`[Service]` section:

> ```text

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
```

LimitNOFILE=102400
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Docker">

If you are running Oasis Node via [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) you can pass
the following option to `docker run` in order to increase the limit to desired
values:

> ```text

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
```

--ulimit nofile=102400:1048576
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Example snippets for different setups

> You may find the following snippets helpful in case you are running `oasis-node`
> process with `systemd`, `Docker` or `runit`.

Reviewer: I would avoid ticks here since they are not commands.

```suggestion
You may find the following snippets helpful in case you are running `oasis-node`
process with systemd, Docker or runit.
```

<Tabs>

> <TabItem value="systemd">

Reviewer: Can you change the languages of the config file blocks as follows:
- systemd: first one none, second one `ini`
- Docker: no language
- runit: `shell`

You may also want to add `ini` to the list of highlighted languages here https://github.com/oasisprotocol/docs/blob/main/docusaurus.config.ts#L238
